Name: MD. Shahriyar Al Mustakim Mitul
ID: 20101547
Section: 19

Bangladeshi politics: Educational requirement for a member of Parliament

INTRODUCTION 
Bangladesh got its independence on 1971. Before getting the independence, it was part of Pakistan called as “East Pakistan”. East Pakistan was a Pakistani province that was founded in 1955 as part of the One Unit Policy of the country. But after the partition, “West Pakistan” did not put much emphasis on “East Pakistan” rather they took away the rights for talking in Bengali. At that time political parties like Awami Muslim League took a step and fought in the election. Awami Muslim League won with their Six Point Program (SPP). Sheikh Mujib at that time lead the party and under his supervision, they won the election. So, this is how politicians have been contributing to Bangladesh before the country was even born. 
“Politics” came from a Greek word that refers to the collection of behaviors that are linked with making decisions in groups or other forms of power relations among individuals, such as the allocation of resources or the distribution of status. “Politics is a distinctive form of rule whereby people act together through institutionalized procedures to resolve differences, to conciliate diverse interests and values and to make public policies in the pursuit of common purposes ( Bernard Crick,2005)." Bangladesh has a very ancient political history and yet the country is a democratic country. There is a new election every 5 years. But the political leaders who are often selected by the parties are not educated. Most of them get the opportunity of election because he/she belongs to a political family. The law for eligibility for elections is that, 
•	A person shall be subject to the provisions of clause 
•	 Be qualified to be elected as, and to be, a member of Parliament if he is a citizen of Bangladesh and has attained the age of twenty-five years (The Constitution of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh | 66. Qualifications and Disqualifications for Election to Parliament, 1972).
But being a Bangladeshi citizen as well as a person 25 years old does not ensure that that person is not corrupted whereas education is something that always helps a person taking the right decision and also realize what is good and what is bad. “Let us make education brave and preventive. Politics is an after-work, poor patching. We are always a little late... We shall one day learn to supersede politics by education... We must begin higher up, namely in education”( Ralph Waldo Emerson,1841). 
Politics has a relation with education because for a country like Bangladesh where people are dependent on the leaders, politicians need to be well chosen. Almost 60% of the politicians are not educated (Karim,2020).Although they have powers and responsibilities, most of them are not properly educated. So, there should be a minimum educational requirement for the member of parliament to ensure proper management of things they control, ensure no corruption in the authority and to plan for the future of Digital Bangladesh in a realistic manner.

OBJECTIVES OF THE STUDY  

This research will focus on Bangladeshi politics and how corrupted people get into the politics and fails the system. This will also focus on the challenges and solutions to having educated political leaders who can be idealized.

RESEARCH METHODOLOGY 

The present research will be based on the political history of Bangladesh along with the incidents and corruption the uneducated and dishonest politicians are making. Although the present research will focus on the current political leaders but tries to explore more corrupted politicians and their ideologies. Here we relied on chapters of books, articles, censuses, periodicals, governmental and nongovernmental reports, and so on.


ANALYSIS 

Bangladesh is a country that has a rich political history. People choose either politics or BCS to have a good life here (Karim,2020). This shows how influential politics has been here. For this reason, politicians also need to be role models for society. Education here can make a person perfect for society.



A Historical Overview
Bangladesh was part of Indian subcontinent and the partition first took place between Indian and Pakistan. This also divided Pakistan into East Pakistan and West Pakistan. There were different ideologies believers in different part of Pakistan. Where West Pakistan used to believe on a capitalist economy, East wanted a social one. Main problem raised when Jinnah declared that Urdu would be the only state language of Bangladesh . After that Bangladesh gone through many movements and mainly political leaders like Sheik Mujib, Tajuddin Ahmed, etc. leaded the people that time. 
 













The election for the Pakistani National Assembly was held on December 7, 1970, in Islamabad. There were a total of 29,479,386 people that cast ballots. Awami league got 160 seats and won the election. Again, the election for the East Pakistan Provincial Council was placed on December 17, 1970, in Islamabad. 57.69 % of the votes were cast, and there were ten allocated seats for female candidates. Awami league again got 288 seats here and won the election. This public acceptance by the normal people influenced Awami League and others to go for the liberation war and in the year 1971, Bangladesh got its freedom with the help of India. Although, after the election the government took the responsibility elected on 1970, some parties demanded for a new election in the new Bangladesh. Thus, the election again took place on 1973. On the 7th of March in 1973, the general election was place. Awami League received 293 seats and won the election but things got changed in the next election on February 18 ,1979. Bangladesh Nationalist Party received 207 seats and the Awami league with 39 seats. After that there were elections in 1986,1988,1991,1996,2001,2008,2014, 2018. Elections were not neutral most of times rather it was partial to the governing party. 


Nepotism in politics

There has been nepotism in political parties. It is not only the governing party but also opposite parties which has also political leaders having no basic knowledge about people and democracy. The educational levels of Dynastic politicians are often lower as well, due to their reliance on familial connections rather than bureaucratic or intellectual aptitude to hold their positions of power and authority. Thus,there have been very less educated leaders leading the dominating political parties. 
Bangladeshi politics has been dominated by a bitter rivalry between two families. One family is of Ziaur Rahman's widow, Khaleda Zia, who has led the Bangladesh Nationalist Party since 1981 for nearly 37 years. Another is  the Bangladesh Awami League, which has been led since 1981 by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman's daughter, Sheikh Hasina, who has led the Bangladesh Nationalist Party since 1981. The two women have inherited their political party affiliations from their family members and have served as prime ministers of Bangladesh since 1991. This shows how Bangladesh has been governed basis on the 2 families and their members. A summary of nepotism in politics.

Election System 

The Bangladeshi Parliament (Jatiya Sangsad) is comprised of 350 members who are elected to 5 terms by their peers. 330 of them are chosen in single-member territorial seats using the first-past-the-post method of electing representatives. The other 50 seats reserved for women, and they are filled by a vote of the 300 members of the House of Commons, using the proportional representation system. With each successive parliament, the number of seats are reserved has increased, rising from 30 to 45 in the 8th parliamentary and 45 to 50 in the 9th parliament. People had to go to educational institutions and vote physically. Nowadays we have Electrical Voting System (EVM) used for voting. 












Educated Politicians a must

As Bangladesh has been very dependent on politics, politicians here have a good role to play. “Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world” (Nelson Mandela).  Every 5 years there is an election held in Bangladesh and it remains a festive mood during the election. People depend on the politicians to verify their identity, justice in an incident and so many.

•	Educated leaders can ensure that the items under their control are properly managed. Bangladesh has been pouring a considerable amount of money into the country's development efforts. The budget for Development Expenditure alone in the years 2021-22 has been set at 2,37,078 crore taka, up from 2,08,025 crore taka in the preceding fiscal year (2020-21). (Finance Division, Ministry of Finance,2021). This demonstrates how much the government is devoting its attention to the development of the country. However, this money is not being managed correctly. After receiving such a large sum of money from the government, a politician who fought the election just for the sake of money will have no regard for the general public. Instead, they will attempt to transfer funds to their own bank accounts. The activity, such as guaranteeing efficient management of funds at the root level, can be managed by an educated politician in this situation.

•	Educated leaders can plan for future Digital Bangladesh in a realistic manner. Since the independence, Bangladesh focused on the education sector and development. Nowadays it is clear that Technology is the future. The government realized this far back and Awami League added the wish to have a “Digital Bangladesh” by the year 2021.  Although Bangladesh has not been properly digitalized well. The Government has now wished to have an Innovative Bangladesh by the year 2041(2021). Moreover, Bangladesh’s IT/ITES industry has performed admirably, earning US $1.3 billion in export revenues FY 2020-21 and holding a US $1.4 billion corresponding market share in the domestic market contributing 0.76 percent to GDP and providing over 1million job opportunities (IT-ITES INDUSTRY STATISTICS OF BANGLADESH,2019). This stat shows how IT sector has been growing and benefiting the government. Although the way to tech is not that smooth process. Most of the students does not have the access to it . Students from rural areas or unaware of these opportunities become a contrary to their progress. A leader  here can ensure his/her local area people are aware of these opportunities and always focusing on science level projects, As all of us know that technology is the future, as a nation we need to grow and we need to focus the most on technology for this purpose. Thus who can be the best example other than our leaders by having better plans set for us and motivate us doing these.
•	Educated politicians will have a better ethics and remove corruption from the authority. Corruption is a restriction to development in all sort of sector specially where a country like Bangladesh is considered. Due to Ready Made Garments, Remittance and Social Development; there is always a steady growth. Thus, the money laundry does not have that much impact on our reserve. Almost 1 crore people are outside the country and sending remittance. Our government is totally using this money to develop the country but corrupted politicians and engineers are becoming the restriction towards the example.  We have several examples of corruptions. Few days back Green City Plan bought just 330 Pillows for 2,27,03,040 taka. Each pillow costed 5.9k taka almost 6 times than normal pillow price (Correspondent, 2019). This is how devastating corruption has been in Bangladesh . An educated politician can thus guide his fellow mates and ensure that there is no corruption. Bangladesh is called the “City of Mosque” along with that there has been lots of constructions.
Moreover, the estimated cost of construction of the Rangpur-Hatikumrul four-lane highway is $6.6 million per kilometer, the Dhaka-Sylhet four-lane highway is $7 million, the Dhaka-Mawa four-lane highway is $11.9 million, and the Dhaka-Chittagong and Dhaka-Mymensingh four-lane highways are each $2.5 million(World Bank).Whereas  a four-lane highway costs $1.1m to $1.3m a km in India and $1.3m-$1.6m in China. This again shows the impact of corruption in the development sector. Here an educated politician who came into politics just for the people will can be an asset by removing corruption from every project possible. He can also set an example of not having bribe and not going for nepotism in politics.



Despite the fact that some people believe that educated politicians can also be greedy and corrupted, this is not the case. On this point, there is absolutely nothing to debate. Real education, on the other hand, teaches a person to be honest and conscientious in his or her work. A well-educated politician will have a strong sense of duty, as well as a strong sense of morality in his or her daily life. He will have had the experience of working in a group and not causing harm to anyone. Examples include Shahid Islam Papul, a politician from Luxmipur-2 who was detained on June 6 and imprisoned after being investigated by the country's Public Prosecution following an inquiry by the Kuwait Criminal Investigation Department (CID). The Marafie Kuwaitia Group was a joint company between Papul and a Kuwaiti national who worked together on several projects. A Bangladeshi national, Mr. Khan is the managing director and chief executive officer of the group. He is suspected of trafficking 20,000 foreign laborers, the vast majority of them are Bangladeshis, for Tk 7-9 lakh each worker (MP's Arrest in Kuwait: Expatriates May Suffer the Fallout, 2020). As an example of a corrupt and illiterate politician, consider the following: An educated politician in this country can be a valuable asset not by committing crimes but also by not allowing corruption to take place.

CONCLUSION

Bangladesh's political leaders serve as the general public's representatives. Bangladesh has historically been a democratic country, yet corrupt politicians have been a source of concern in numerous instances. We have seen significant setbacks in our progress because of corruption within the department or at work. The general public is reliant on politicians for a variety of reasons, such as justice, verification, and so on. The adage goes, "With great power comes great responsibility." This is certainly true. A politician must therefore educate himself or herself and establish himself or herself as a role model in order to ensure proper administration of the projects that he or she is responsible for. As a result, according to the findings of this study, a politician must be educated in order to serve as a member of parliament and to govern the country.












REFERENCES
Bernard Crick, In Defence of Politics, Continuum International Publishing Group, 2005, p. 118.
The Constitution of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh | 66. Qualifications and disqualifications for election to Parliament. (1972). Laws of Bangladesh. Geraadpleegd op 15 april 2022, van http://bdlaws.minlaw.gov.bd/act-367/section-24620.html

R. (2021, 25 december). Digital Bangladesh to Innovative Bangladesh: The road to 2041. UNDP. Geraadpleegd op 15 april 2022, van https://www.bd.undp.org/content/bangladesh/en/home/blog/2021/december/12/digital-bangladesh-to-innovative-bangladesh--the-road-to-2041.html
Correspondent, S. (2019, 21 juli). Rooppur pillow issue: HC waits for ministry’s action. Daily Bangladesh. Geraadpleegd op 15 april 2022, van https://www.daily-bangladesh.com/english/Rooppur-pillow-issue-HC-waits-for-ministrys-action/26097
MP’S Arrest in Kuwait: Expatriates may suffer the fallout. (2020, 12 juli). The Daily Star. Geraadpleegd op 7 april 2022, van https://www.thedailystar.net/frontpage/news/mps-arrest-kuwait-expatriates-may-suffer-the-fallout-1929441

